CYBER SECURITY PERSONAL STATEMENT
SAVE FILE IN ENGLISH FOLDER ON YOUR KSD.ORG YOUR GOOGLE DRIVE 
NAME THE FILE PERSONAL-STATEMENT-YOURNAME

Personal statements are a major part of scholarship applications, internships and employment.

The personal statement is your chance to convince the scholarship committee that you deserve the scholarship. 
While your resume may be impressive, there are likely hundreds, maybe even thousands of students who are just as impressive. 

A personal statement is a great way to set yourself apart.

There isn’t one right way to write a personal statement for a scholarship. 
But, you should make sure to include the following five elements: 
Personality, Authenticity, Concrete Examples and Goals


* Personality

What makes you unique? No, not your 4.0 GPA or 1500 on the SAT. 
While those are both impressive stats, your personal statement is a space for you to address deeper things that aren’t listed on your resume. 
What information can you give readers about yourself to help them get to know who you are?  

* Authenticity

Be honest and genuine. A lack of authenticity is very clear to readers. 
Write about what you hold dear to your heart and not what you think readers are expecting to hear from you.

* Concrete Examples

Scholarship judges have to read through hundreds of scholarship applications. Make yours stand out. 
One great way to accomplish this is to add personal anecdotes and examples.0 

In other words, show, don’t just tell. 
Instead of writing that you are a highly motivated individual, 
describe to the readers what that means. 
Give examples of a time that your motivation helped you achieve something great.  
Scholarship Personal StatementStructure

Make sure that your essay flows in a clear and concise manner. 
It should consist of an introduction, body paragraphs, and a conclusion. 

* Goals 

Make sure that your goals are clear to the reader. Organizations award scholarships to invest in a student’s future. Why should they invest in yours? Convince them that winning this scholarship will help you achieve your education and career goals. 
